# Data Humanities: A Primer

## Why "data humanities"?
Data humanities is simply the study of humanistic data. This is to reframe what we might consider the typical objects of humanistic study: literature, art, people, society are, to the scholar, forms of data. Humanities data are thus words, speech, lines of paint, 3d models of sculpture, videos, audio clips, but also dates, coordinates, demographic quantifications, historical statistics and the like. Data is a unit of information that is measured, quantified, and recorded. In that sense, a work of literature is humanities data in multiple dimensions. It has verbal data in the form of words. Those words themselves are data in the form of sequences of characters or, conversely, as linguistic patterns or quantifiable systems of usage. The physical artifact of particular copies of that literary work are quantifiable in terms of size, weight, materials and all the other familiar markers of the physical book. So too performance may have a visual recording, which is image and/or audio data extended over time, or it may have textual artifacts like reports, scripts, and reviews. Framing the objects of humanistic study as data compels us to engage with these often familiar objects with the questions that are current in the study of data in our increasingly technologized, algorithmized, and automated world. How does this data represent an underlying object, reality, or set of circumstances? What is left out of the data? What is missing? What is obscured by the selection or choices about how a work of, e.g., literature or art, becomes quantifiable, measurable, i.e. digitized data? What is highlighted or amplified by the nature of the data itself?

There is an important distinction here between the moniker "digital humanities" and my focus on "data humanities." Digital humanities is a problematic label in many ways, not least of all because the issues that 
This book is about methods in the study of such data. 
